joe rogan's statement on video games
it's caused some controversy
[Music]
if this is what your living room looks
like i want you to know
not a problem perfectly normal
nothing to worry about it's just a hobby
it's not taking over your life if this
is what your
childhood was like if this is what the
inside of your brain
looks like as no not a problem just not
to worry no
no promo in fact you know this guy who
built this
um museum to his own
video game habit he's cool guy cool
this is this is this isn't just normal
it's cool in fact
i hope that when i grow up um i can be
like him oh oh no wait i'm already
over 40 years old so uh i guess i'll
just have to fall back on plan b
and become like a kung fu master like
joe rogan
more people just need to be like uh joe
rogan's wrong
because he's wrong he is dead wrong
right
to say that you're gonna go nowhere and
by playing video games
like saying that you're gonna go nowhere
playing basketball you're gonna go
nowhere playing basketball
why are you going to the park and
playing basketball with your friends
you're not going to be in the nba one
day
right i get your point but i'm not sure
that
you get your point playing video games
is a waste of time playing basketball
also a waste of time to say that you're
gonna go nowhere
and by playing video games like saying
that you're gonna go nowhere playing
basketball
if you've been waiting your whole life
to hear someone say this to you
let me tell you you're gonna go nowhere
playing basketball dude dude dude
dude you're gonna go nowhere
playing basketball there is a slim
chance that you're gonna be a ninja or
that you're gonna have a career in
gaming entertainment
and make money just like there's a slim
chance that you're gonna
work somewhere in the nba you know
you there's a slim chance that you're
even going to be the ball boy you know
what i'm saying like so
joe rogan's wrong part of the problem
here
is uniquely american and it's not that
americans are
anti-intellectual they just imagine
that anyone they look up to is somehow
much more intellectual than they really
are
michael jordan do you think michael
jordan
ever read the complete works of william
shakespeare
kobe bryant what do you think were the
last five or six books
he read before he died should we keep
going through the list here
wilt chamberlain shaquille o'neal you
tell me
americans have not learned to regard
athletes
with the derision they truly deserve
most of these people and like i don't
even know of one
exception they are ignorant
scumbags who deserve to be looked down
upon with utter contempt
you should say to your kids i don't want
you
to grow up to be like kobe bryant i
don't want you to grow up to be like
michael jordan i
want you to have a better life than that
i want you to have a more meaningful
life than that you should be able to
look at these
famous video game players like ninja or
like
pewdiepie and say wow i don't want to be
like him when i grow up and i sure as
hell don't want my son or my daughter
to grow up to be like that but all of
this is only possible
it's only thinkable if you open the door
of your mind
to the possibility that there is
something more meaningful in life
than steroids weightlifting and throwing
a ball through a hoop
to make people cheer and pay you
millions
of dollars for those that don't know he
came out with these statements he
basically said
you know people are wasting years their
life playing video games and they're not
going anywhere right
the witcher 3 102
hours of play time elder scrolls 5
skyrim 108
hours of play time yeah the numbers kind
of speak for themselves
legend of zelda breath of the wild 93
and a half hours i heard someone offhand
refer to it as 150 hour game i guess he
was a completion
oh what the last of us part two what is
this
only only 28 and a half hours well chuck
what what could you possibly accomplish
in
28 and a half hours of uh
focused dedicated the complete works of
william shakespeare
is only 21 hours and 20 minutes you
could have read the complete works of
william shakespeare
in less time than it takes to play
through the last of us part two
not everyone can do kung fu not everyone
can do jujitsu and if everyone tried
not everyone could win but yeah you know
what everyone
everyone everyone could read
the complete works of william
shakespeare you could read something
you could do something that would make
yourself into a better person and make
the world a better place
especially when you're talking about
hundreds of hours
of waking focused mental work
and that's what video games are video
games are a job
that you don't get paid to do joe
rogan's wrong
joe rogan's wrong video games are
awesome and you're not wasting your life
playing video games
i mean some may be like all things
things can be addictive
i've never heard anyone say that reading
the complete works of william
shakespeare was addictive
and i mean this was pretty much the
situation
comedy of its day i mean a large
part of william shakespeare is just
light-hearted
entertainment and ribbedry
i've never heard anyone say that doing
anything
really positive really meaningful and
really
rewarding is addictive
not even like charity work to help the
poor
maybe that's the tragedy all of us want
to overlook here right joe
right keem i mean maybe the problem is
precisely that what people find
fun addictive rewarding
it's only and exclusively the things
they ought to discipline themselves to
avoid
i mean some may be like all things
things can be addictive but uh
for the most part you play video games
because they're fun you know you're not
wasting your life you're doing what you
love
in some ways playing video games
is just a waste of time and can be
compared to any other waste of time
although it is an especially significant
waste of time
for my generation and the next few
generations
that are now growing up i can't sit here
and tell you
that video games are comparable to
people watching tv
or listening to the radio or listening
to music from my perspective
they're just not i have never
known anyone who adopted a tv show
as their personal identity in the same
way that
millions of video game players adopt as
their identity
being a gamer or being a player of a
particular
genre of games a particular series of
games
and yes you can mention star trek fans
here
but when you think about it how many
hours
per year did star trek fans spend
actually watching star trek or attending
events and conventions
when i was a kid there was only one tv
show
broadcast it was star trek the next
generation it's just not that many hours
not compared to even a single video game
and these people are buying and playing
dozens of 80-hour video games per year
so for one thing it's very different
because of the role of the ego
video games aren't just something they
play
a gamer is something they become
their sense of identity gets wrapped up
and look
the thing with collecting there are also
uniquely pathetic aspects of collecting
video games
i really thought about this recently why
is it so different
from collecting books well in some ways
it's different and in some ways
it's the same this seems kind of
charming to amass a collection of these
you know lavishly illustrated pulp
fiction books the way this guy has you
know
i can imagine you have a room and
filling up the walls with
this kind of pulp fiction it would have
a certain kind of charm
and this guy is a collector i doubt he's
read even one percent
of the books he owns like many video
game collectors a large part of the
thrill
is just to have a complete set they're
all numbered they're all in order on a
shelf
and he can sit there and work through
the stack but
he's not actually reading these books he
is
just collecting the but to me
there's something rather pathetic
in amassing what was ultimately produced
as a soulless
for-profit corporate industry
i mean these books they were
commissioned and decided on
by a board of directors at a heartless
corporation
that you know paid the money to create
these beautiful paintings on the cover
and so on understand that corporate
background gives them
much of their aesthetic i mean this
world
of for-profit pulp fiction publishing
it's not so different from
a disney corporation churning out one
movie after another
or whatever corporation now owns star
trek
star wars and so on there is this sense
in which collecting this form of
collecting
in a sense just makes you a slave to
corporate america
like somehow they're proud of this and
they have a checklist where they're
trying to buy every game that was
published for the wii u
every game that was published for the
playstation 3 whether it be nintendo or
microsoft what have you
and they can't just behold that they're
the errand boy for a soulless
corporation
it is in a word pathetic
whereas collecting stones that you
happen to find on the beach
that happened to be beautiful to you
subjectively
collecting stones from moments in your
life that meant something special if you
picked up a stone on the ground
one day when you took a walk with your
wife and you'll always remember that
stone because you remember that day
that's a collection that revolves around
who you are
it has to do with who you are you know
what you could have a collection
that revolves around someone you aspire
to be but someone
you aren't yet things you haven't
accomplished yet or you could collect
things
that help you accomplish those things
there were ways in which collecting
books
could be much much more meaningful than
this for one thing you could just
collect books that you read and actually
meant a lot to you
but you could collect books that you'd
used in your own creative work whether
that's
research or writing fiction you could
collect books where
you're not just working against a
corporate checklist
where they're actually things that are
hard to find that are some historical
significance
in some area that you have expertise in
so you know in my case i've studied some
obscure languages
and there was a time when i owned books
that were rare not valuable
not expensive but rare and hard to find
that related to those languages and the
history of those countries and those
peoples
i don't have any of those books anymore
i've never been a collector and i've
never had enough stability in my life to
collect
so yeah there is something especially
pathetic that i see here
in the video game collectors because on
the one hand
they're just making themselves slaves to
corporate america in this
abject embarrassing way and they refuse
to be embarrassed about it that's why
they have to cling to this identity
of being a gamer